%% IEEE Introduction for Indoor Testbed Paper
%% Generated: 2025-11-04 22:53:46

\section{Introduction}

Mobile multirobot systems have become increasingly utilized across a broad spectrum of applications, ranging from environmental monitoring to search and rescue operations, due to their ability to perform tasks more efficiently and resiliently than single-robot systems [1-3]. The architecture of these systems often leverages the strengths of individual robots through coordinated control strategies, enabling complex, distributed tasks to be accomplished with greater precision and adaptability [4,5]. Within this context, the transition from theoretical models and simulation environments to real-world hardware implementations presents a significant challenge, primarily due to the unpredictable nature of real-world physics, hardware limitations, and the need for high-fidelity sensor integration and real-time processing capabilities [6-8].

Simulations offer a controlled environment to test algorithms and system behaviors without the risk of hardware damage or the constraints of physical prototypes. However, they often fail to accurately capture the nuances of real-world interactions, such as sensor noise, communication delays, and environmental factors, which can significantly impact system performance [9,10]. Moreover, the operational and regulatory challenges associated with outdoor multi-drone testing, including safety regulations and frequency interference, necessitate alternative approaches for comprehensive system validation [11,12].

Indoor testbeds provide a valuable solution to these challenges, offering a controlled environment that allows for the detailed study of multirobot dynamics without the constraints and risks associated with outdoor testing [13,14]. Such environments enable researchers to closely replicate real-world conditions, facilitating the transition from simulation to hardware by allowing for the fine-tuning of control algorithms and system parameters under practical constraints [15,16]. Furthermore, indoor testing environments are crucial for the development and validation of GPS-independent navigation and localization techniques, which are essential for indoor or GPS-denied operations [17,18].

The integration of cluster control methodologies within these testbeds further enhances the capability for precise multirobot coordination. Unlike swarm approaches, which emphasize decentralized decision-making and scalability, cluster control focuses on structured formations and specific roles within a group, requiring precise navigation and coordination for task execution [19,20]. This approach is particularly beneficial for tasks that demand high levels of precision and reliability, such as formation flying and synchronized maneuvers [21,22].

Our work extends the SCU RSL testbed to 3D environments with Crazyflie microdrones, integrating a cluster control architecture that enables high-frequency (100Hz) multi-drone coordination. We achieve sub-centimeter tracking accuracy using a 24-camera OptiTrack configuration, demonstrating formation spacing accuracy of 1m, altitude precision of 10cm, and 20-degree heading accuracy. This level of precision, combined with our system's ability to enable single-operator control of multiple drones, addresses both the technical and operational challenges of multi-drone research, circumventing FAA regulations for indoor operations [23,24].

Key contributions of this paper include the extension of the SCU RSL testbed to support microdrone research in 3D environments, the integration of a high-precision tracking system to enable advanced formation control research, and the demonstration of cluster control methodologies for multi-drone coordination. Our testbed not only bridges the gap between simulation and real-world hardware implementation but also provides a platform for exploring advanced navigation algorithms, environmental monitoring applications, and the validation of formation control strategies [25-27].

The paper is organized as follows: Section II provides an overview of related work in the field of multirobot systems and indoor testbeds. Section III details the design and implementation of our indoor testbed, including system specifications and the integration of the cluster control architecture. Section IV presents the experimental results, demonstrating the capabilities of our testbed through hover, dynamic positioning, and formation shrinking maneuvers. Finally, Section V concludes the paper with a discussion of future work and the potential implications of our research for the broader field of multirobot systems.