MLA Citations for Papers
================================================================================

[1] Distributed Optimal Formation, et al.. "Distributed Optimal Formation for Uncertain Euler-Lagrange Systems With Collision Avoidance." IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—II: EXPRESS BRIEFS, VOL. 69, NO. 8, AUGUST 2022 3415, 20. https://doi.org/10.1109/TCSII.2021.3140141..

[2] Digital Object Identifier, et al.. "Received 18 January 2023, accepted 6 February 2023, date of publication 14 February 2023, date of current version 23 February 2023. Digital Object Identifier 10.1 109/ACCESS.2023.324491 1." 1, (Graduate Student Member, IEEE), JAKE KAMENETSKY, 20.

[3] Dynamic Plume, et al.. "Dynamic Plume T racking by Cooperative Robots Jun-Wei Wang ,Y iG u o , Muhammad Fahad , and Brian Bingham." IEEE/ASME T RANSACTIONS ON MECHATRONICS, VOL. 24, NO. 2, APRIL 2019 609, 20. https://doi.org/10.1109/TMECH.2019.2892292.

[4] Patrolling Missions, et al.. "Entrapment/Escorting and Patrolling Missions in Multi-Robot Cluster Space Control.".

[5] Received March, et al.. "Received March 25, 2019, accepted April 26, 2019, date of publication May 15, 2019, date of current version May 28, 2019.Digital Object Identifier 10.1 109/ACCESS.2019.2917120Experimental Implementation and Verificationof Scalar Field Ridge, Trench, and SaddlePoint Maneuvers Using MultirobotAdaptive NavigationROBERT T. MCDONALD, (Student Member, IEEE),CHRISTOPHER A. KITTS, (Senior Member, IEEE),AND MICHAEL A. NEUMANN, (Member, IEEE)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, CA 95053, USACorresponding author: Robert T. McDonald (rmcdonald@scu.edu)ABSTRACTAdaptive navigation of scalar ﬁelds is a compelling capability in which mobile robotic systemsmake real-time navigation decisions based on sensed measurements of the environment. This capabilitycan enable efﬁcient identiﬁcation and location of speciﬁc features of interest within the ﬁeld of interest,potentially saving time and energy while also being responsive to changing conditions. Applications caninclude ﬁnding the sources and impact zones of a pollutant, establishing hazard perimeters, ﬁnding safezones, and safe paths of travel. This paper presents new work that experimentally veriﬁes several adaptivenavigation control policies for moving to/along critical scalar ﬁeld features with a group of mobile robots.Speciﬁcally, we demonstrate the use of a ﬁve robot cluster of sensor-equipped mobile robots to descendridges within a scalar ﬁeld, to ascend trenches, and to move to and hold a position at saddle points. This isdone through the use of differential measurements across the cluster’s formation baselines and control lawsthat have been previously demonstrated in simulation. This paper also incorporates a new state machinewithin the adaptive navigation control architecture in order to monitor the performance of the individualcontrol primitives and to respond to conditions such as losing track of the feature of interest. Finally, thispaper is the ﬁrst in which we have experimentally demonstrated control of a ﬁve robot group of robots usingour cluster space control methodology. The experiments were conducted using a novel indoor multi-robottestbed with the ability to establish customizable scalar ﬁelds printed in greyscale on large sheets that areactively sensed by the robots to enable controlled experimental evaluation. Four different ﬁelds are used inthis study in order to demonstrate the new capabilities of interest.INDEX TERMSAdaptive navigation, adaptive sampling, differential control, multi-robot formations,formation control, cluster space control.I. INTRODUCTIONIn a traditional navigation scenario, the desired waypointsor trajectory for the vehicle is known and prescribed. Alter-natively, Adaptive Navigation (AN) provides the capabilityto automatically adjust the route and/or destination based onrealtime information typically collected by the vehicle itself.Obstacle avoidance is perhaps the simplest AN approachand has been successfully demonstrated through the useof artiﬁcial potential ﬁelds [1], fuzzy logic [2], tree-basedThe associate editor coordinating the review of this manuscript andapproving it for publication was Luigi Biagiotti.approaches [3], and integrated path planning [4]. Objective-based approaches include techniques for evading pursuers [5]and managing building evacuation routes [6].Another class of AN focuses on navigating to/along spe-ciﬁc conditions of interest without prior knowledge of theirposition. To date, most work of this nature has focused onscalar ﬁelds, which are regions in which a single scalarvalue of some characteristic of interest, such as temperatureor concentration level, is associated with every point in theﬁeld. Features of interest within such ﬁelds include minima/maxima, contours, ridges, trenches, and saddle points. Suchfeatures are critical for a variety of applications ranging629502169-3536⌦2019 IEEE. Translations and content mining are permitted for academic research only.Personal use is also permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.See http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.VOLUME 7, 2019." Received March 25, 2019, accepted April 26, 2019, date of publication May 15, 2019, date of current version May 28, 2019.Digital Object Identifier 10.1 109/ACCESS.2019.2917120Experimental Implementation and Verificationof Scalar Field Ridge, Trench, and SaddlePoint Maneuvers Using MultirobotAdaptive NavigationROBERT T. MCDONALD, (Student Member, IEEE),CHRISTOPHER A. KITTS, (Senior Member, IEEE),AND MICHAEL A. NEUMANN, (Member, IEEE)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, CA 95053, USACorresponding author: Robert T. McDonald (rmcdonald@scu.edu)ABSTRACTAdaptive navigation of scalar ﬁelds is a compelling capability in which mobile robotic systemsmake real-time navigation decisions based on sensed measurements of the environment. This capabilitycan enable efﬁcient identiﬁcation and location of speciﬁc features of interest within the ﬁeld of interest,potentially saving time and energy while also being responsive to changing conditions. Applications caninclude ﬁnding the sources and impact zones of a pollutant, establishing hazard perimeters, ﬁnding safezones, and safe paths of travel. This paper presents new work that experimentally veriﬁes several adaptivenavigation control policies for moving to/along critical scalar ﬁeld features with a group of mobile robots.Speciﬁcally, we demonstrate the use of a ﬁve robot cluster of sensor-equipped mobile robots to descendridges within a scalar ﬁeld, to ascend trenches, and to move to and hold a position at saddle points. This isdone through the use of differential measurements across the cluster’s formation baselines and control lawsthat have been previously demonstrated in simulation. This paper also incorporates a new state machinewithin the adaptive navigation control architecture in order to monitor the performance of the individualcontrol primitives and to respond to conditions such as losing track of the feature of interest. Finally, thispaper is the ﬁrst in which we have experimentally demonstrated control of a ﬁve robot group of robots usingour cluster space control methodology. The experiments were conducted using a novel indoor multi-robottestbed with the ability to establish customizable scalar ﬁelds printed in greyscale on large sheets that areactively sensed by the robots to enable controlled experimental evaluation. Four different ﬁelds are used inthis study in order to demonstrate the new capabilities of interest.INDEX TERMSAdaptive navigation, adaptive sampling, differential control, multi-robot formations,formation control, cluster space control.I. INTRODUCTIONIn a traditional navigation scenario, the desired waypointsor trajectory for the vehicle is known and prescribed. Alter-natively, Adaptive Navigation (AN) provides the capabilityto automatically adjust the route and/or destination based onrealtime information typically collected by the vehicle itself.Obstacle avoidance is perhaps the simplest AN approachand has been successfully demonstrated through the useof artiﬁcial potential ﬁelds [1], fuzzy logic [2], tree-basedThe associate editor coordinating the review of this manuscript andapproving it for publication was Luigi Biagiotti.approaches [3], and integrated path planning [4]. Objective-based approaches include techniques for evading pursuers [5]and managing building evacuation routes [6].Another class of AN focuses on navigating to/along spe-ciﬁc conditions of interest without prior knowledge of theirposition. To date, most work of this nature has focused onscalar ﬁelds, which are regions in which a single scalarvalue of some characteristic of interest, such as temperatureor concentration level, is associated with every point in theﬁeld. Features of interest within such ﬁelds include minima/maxima, contours, ridges, trenches, and saddle points. Suchfeatures are critical for a variety of applications ranging629502169-3536⌦2019 IEEE. Translations and content mining are permitted for academic research only.Personal use is also permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.See http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.VOLUME 7, 2019, 20.

[6] Time Estimation, et al.. "Finite-Time Estimation and Control for Multi-Aircraft Systems Under Wind and Dynamic Obstacles.". https://doi.org/10.2514/1.G003967.

[7] World Multirobot Systems Christopher, et al.. "Design, Control, and Applications of Real-World Multirobot Systems Christopher A. Kitts and Magnus Egerstedt." ning for this special issue of IEEE Robotics & Automation, 20.

[8] From Small, et al.. "From Small-Scale to Full-Scale: Assessing the Potential for Transferability of Experimental Results." Simon Sch ¨afer1,Student Member, IEEE , and Bassam Alrifaee2,Senior Member, IEEE,.

[9] Fully Distributed Algorithms, et al.. "Fully Distributed Algorithms for Constrained Nonsmooth Optimization Problems of General Linear Multiagent Systems and Their Application." IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATIC CONTROL, VOL. 69, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2024 1377, 20.

[10] Functional Indoor Testbed, et al.. "A Functional Indoor Testbed for 2D Vector Field Multirobot Adaptive NavigationAuthor: Christopher Waight,  cwaight@scu.eduAdvisor: Dr. Christopher Kitts, ckitts@scu.edu.".

[11] Received February, et al.. "Received February 6, 2018, accepted February 28, 2018, date of publication March 22, 2018, date of current version April 23, 2018.Digital Object Identifier 10.1 109/ACCESS.2018.2818622Adaptive Navigation Control Primitives forMultirobot Clusters: Extrema Finding, ContourFollowing, Ridge/Trench Following, andSaddle Point Station KeepingCHRISTOPHER A. KITTS, (Senior Member IEEE),ROBERT T. MCDONALD, (Student Member IEEE),AND MICHAEL A. NEUMANN, (Member IEEE)Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, CA 95053, USACorresponding author: Christopher A. Kitts (ckitts@scu.edu)ABSTRACTAdaptive navigation is the process of modifying a vehicle’s direction or motion path basedon measurements taken while moving. When exploring a scalar ﬁeld, such as the temperature or theconcentration level of a pollutant across a region of interest, adaptive navigation may allow the identiﬁcationof locations of interest—like the maximum temperature or the source of the pollutant—without exhaustivelymapping the entire region. Adaptive navigation has been hailed as a powerful capability, and signiﬁcantwork has been performed to explore how such techniques can be used to ﬁnd the local extreme points andfollow contour levels in a ﬁeld. Our own prior work in this ﬁeld has matured to experimentally verifying andvalidating such capabilities through ﬁeld demonstrations. Beyond extrema-ﬁnding and contour following,however, little to no prior work has been performed on moving to/along other critical features in a scalarﬁeld, such as down ridges, up trenches, and to saddle points; performing such maneuvers can be valuablefor a number of applications. In this paper, we provide and verify via simulation new multirobot adaptivenavigation controllers for moving with respect to these new features. We also present a multilayered controlarchitecture that uniﬁes the execution of all of our multirobot adaptive navigation control primitives: extremaﬁnding, contour following, ridge/trench following, and saddle point positioning. In addition, we reviewseveral considerations related to the performance of these controllers within unknown scalar ﬁelds. Finally,we review ongoing and future work to experimentally verify our new controllers, improve and extend theirperformance, and apply them to real ﬁeld applications.INDEX TERMSAdaptive navigation, adaptive sampling, gradient-climbing, differential control, multirobotformations, formation control, cluster space control.I. INTRODUCTIONIn a conventional navigation scenario, a vehicle is providedwith a series of waypoints; the trajectory between these pathsmay also be prescribed. In contrast, Adaptive Navigation(AN) is the process of determining or modifying the vehicle’sdirection or path through a region based on measurementstaken while moving through that region.In the simplest form of AN, the destination is explicitlyspeciﬁed with alterations to the path permitted. A commonexample of this is rerouting an automobile trip in orderto avoid trafﬁc [1]. For robotic vehicles, a common exam-ple of this is to avoid obstacles or adjust a route due tochallenging terrain. For wheeled robots, this has beenachieved by modifying artiﬁcial potential ﬁeld methods withfuzzy logic approaches in order to move safely throughdynamic and unstructured environments [2]. Fuzzy logic hasalso been applied to adaptive navigation for legged robotswhich handle obstructions differently than wheeled robotsgiven their ability to climb over some obstacles [3]. Fornext generation Mars missions, multiple capabilities suchas identifying physical obstacles, estimating wheel slippageprobabilities throughout the region, and creating dynamicpredictions of path-following performance are integrated toincrementally plan a route to a desired location [4].VOLUME 6, 20182169-3536⌦2018 IEEE. Translations and content mining are permitted for academic research only.Personal use is also permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.See http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.17625." Received February 6, 2018, accepted February 28, 2018, date of publication March 22, 2018, date of current version April 23, 2018.Digital Object Identifier 10.1 109/ACCESS.2018.2818622Adaptive Navigation Control Primitives forMultirobot Clusters: Extrema Finding, ContourFollowing, Ridge/Trench Following, andSaddle Point Station KeepingCHRISTOPHER A. KITTS, (Senior Member IEEE),ROBERT T. MCDONALD, (Student Member IEEE),AND MICHAEL A. NEUMANN, (Member IEEE)Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, CA 95053, USACorresponding author: Christopher A. Kitts (ckitts@scu.edu)ABSTRACTAdaptive navigation is the process of modifying a vehicle’s direction or motion path basedon measurements taken while moving. When exploring a scalar ﬁeld, such as the temperature or theconcentration level of a pollutant across a region of interest, adaptive navigation may allow the identiﬁcationof locations of interest—like the maximum temperature or the source of the pollutant—without exhaustivelymapping the entire region. Adaptive navigation has been hailed as a powerful capability, and signiﬁcantwork has been performed to explore how such techniques can be used to ﬁnd the local extreme points andfollow contour levels in a ﬁeld. Our own prior work in this ﬁeld has matured to experimentally verifying andvalidating such capabilities through ﬁeld demonstrations. Beyond extrema-ﬁnding and contour following,however, little to no prior work has been performed on moving to/along other critical features in a scalarﬁeld, such as down ridges, up trenches, and to saddle points; performing such maneuvers can be valuablefor a number of applications. In this paper, we provide and verify via simulation new multirobot adaptivenavigation controllers for moving with respect to these new features. We also present a multilayered controlarchitecture that uniﬁes the execution of all of our multirobot adaptive navigation control primitives: extremaﬁnding, contour following, ridge/trench following, and saddle point positioning. In addition, we reviewseveral considerations related to the performance of these controllers within unknown scalar ﬁelds. Finally,we review ongoing and future work to experimentally verify our new controllers, improve and extend theirperformance, and apply them to real ﬁeld applications.INDEX TERMSAdaptive navigation, adaptive sampling, gradient-climbing, differential control, multirobotformations, formation control, cluster space control.I. INTRODUCTIONIn a conventional navigation scenario, a vehicle is providedwith a series of waypoints; the trajectory between these pathsmay also be prescribed. In contrast, Adaptive Navigation(AN) is the process of determining or modifying the vehicle’sdirection or path through a region based on measurementstaken while moving through that region.In the simplest form of AN, the destination is explicitlyspeciﬁed with alterations to the path permitted. A commonexample of this is rerouting an automobile trip in orderto avoid trafﬁc [1]. For robotic vehicles, a common exam-ple of this is to avoid obstacles or adjust a route due tochallenging terrain. For wheeled robots, this has beenachieved by modifying artiﬁcial potential ﬁeld methods withfuzzy logic approaches in order to move safely throughdynamic and unstructured environments [2]. Fuzzy logic hasalso been applied to adaptive navigation for legged robotswhich handle obstructions differently than wheeled robotsgiven their ability to climb over some obstacles [3]. Fornext generation Mars missions, multiple capabilities suchas identifying physical obstacles, estimating wheel slippageprobabilities throughout the region, and creating dynamicpredictions of path-following performance are integrated toincrementally plan a route to a desired location [4].VOLUME 6, 20182169-3536⌦2018 IEEE. Translations and content mining are permitted for academic research only.Personal use is also permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.See http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.17625, 20.

[12] Adaptive Navigation, et al.. "Gradient-based Adaptive Navigation of Multiple Diving Autonomous Surface Vehicles.".

[13] Based Cluster Space Navigationfor Autonomous Surface Vessels, et al.. "506IEEE/ASME TRANSACTIONS ON MECHATRONICS, VOL. 20, NO. 2, APRIL 2015Gradient-Based Cluster Space Navigationfor Autonomous Surface VesselsThomas Adamek, Member, IEEE, Christopher A. Kitts, Senior Member, IEEE, and Ignacio Mas, Member, IEEEAbstract—This paper presents an experimentally demonstratedgradient-based multirobot technique for adaptively navigatingwithin a parameter ﬁeld. To implement this technique, simulta-neous measurements of the parameter are made at different lo-cations within the ﬁeld by a spatially controlled cluster of mobilerobots. These measurements are shared in order to compute a lo-cal gradient of the ﬁeld. Depending on the task to be achieved,the multirobot cluster is directed with respect to this direction.Moving in or opposite to the gradient direction allows efﬁcientnavigation to local maxima/minima in the ﬁeld, a capability of in-terest for applications such as detecting pollution sources or thelocation of resource-starved areas. Moving perpendicular to thegradient direction allows parameter contours to be navigated, abehavior useful for applications such as deﬁning the extent of aﬁeld or establishing a safety perimeter at a deﬁned ﬁeld level. Thispaper describes the multirobot control technique which combinesa full degree-of-freedom “cluster space” multirobot controller witha gradient-based adaptive navigation capability. Veriﬁcation of thetechnique through ﬁeld experiments using a ﬂeet of three robotickayaks is also presented. Finally, a discussion of results, a review ofchallenges, and a review of ongoing and future work are presented.Index Terms—Adaptive navigation, autonomous surface vessel,cluster space control, gradient-based navigation.I. INTRODUCTIONMULTIROBOT systems have the potential to dramaticallyimpact robotic applications through improved perfor-mance and the enabling of completely new capabilities. Alone,robots offer strength, speed, precision, repeatability, and theability to withstand extreme environments. Combined in a multi-robot system, additional advantages are possible, such as redun-dancy, increased throughput, expanded coverage/availability,and spatially distributed sensing and actuation [1]. Multirobotsystems can support applications ranging from remote [2] andin situsensing [3] to the physical manipulation of objects [4],Manuscript received April 29, 2013; revised July 31, 2013; accepted Novem-ber 16, 2013. Date of publication January 19, 2014; date of current versionOctober 24, 2014. Recommended by Technical Editor H. Gao. This work (el-ements of this work, to include control system development, creation of theexperimental testbed, ﬁeld experimentation, etc.) was supported in part by theSCU Robotic Systems Laboratory, School of Engineering, Sustainability Pro-gram, and Technology Steering Committee; in part by NOAA under GrantNA03OAR4300104 (via subaward UAF 05-0148 from the University of AlaskaFairbanks); and in part by the National Science Foundation under Grant CNS-0619940.T. Adamek and C. A. Kitts are with the Department Mechanical Engineering,Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, CA 95053 USA (e-mail: tadamek@scu.edu;ckitts@scu.edu).I. Mas was with the Department Mechanical Engineering, Santa Clara Uni-versity, Santa Clara, CA 95053 USA. He is now with the Instituto Tecnologicode Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina (e-mail: ignacio.a.mas@gmail.com).Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TMECH.2013.2297152and the domains for such applications include land, sea, air, andspace [5].One characterization of multirobot systems is the degree towhich their functions and spatial characteristics are coordinated.Some applications loosely coordinate such characteristics, suchas the open-loop synchronization of prepositioned manipulatorson an assembly line [6]. Applications requiring capabilities suchas synoptic mapping, in which robot-based sensors are spatiallydistributed throughout a ﬁeld of interest and collect data in asynchronized manner in order to represent the state of the ﬁeld[7], may use closed-loop spatial control to ensure high-qualityresults. Other applications may require even more integratedoperation and relative position control, such as proposed sparsearray space telescopes [8].Our work focused on the highly integrated end of the con-trol spectrum, with target applications that include active escort-ing/guarding [9], [10], object tracking, object manipulation [11],and sparse antenna arrays [12]. Given that these applications re-quire active control of the relative spatial characteristics of therobot formation, we have developed a ﬂexible and powerfulformation-level control architecture, known as the cluster spaceformation control technique [13], which provides a suitable levelof abstraction at the application-formation control interface.The work presented in this paper focuses on the use of mul-tiple, spatially distributed robots to sense a spatially varyingparameter of interest, estimate the local spatial gradient of thisﬁeld, and then navigate with respect to this gradient. This ap-proach offers the ability to navigate with respect to possiblefeatures of interest, such as local maximum/minimum locationsor perhaps along a speciﬁc parameter contour. This is in con-trast to traditional parameter mapping approaches in which asingle platform systematically navigates through a region, of-ten in a “mow-the-lawn” fashion, in order to map an entirearea [14]. If the ultimate goal is to locate/perform gradient-related features/tasks, the multirobot gradient-based mappingcapability offers beneﬁts such as faster identiﬁcation of areasof interest and the ability to dynamically track these features intime-varying ﬁelds.There have been a number of examples of gradient-basednavigation through a parameter ﬁeld by a single robot throughthe use of bioinspired control strategies. In one system, a robotwas built to follow the direction of an odor source [15]. This wasdone using four anemometric and gas sensors to estimate the di-rection of airﬂow carrying the molecules of interest. Given thisbearing estimate, the robot moved toward the odor source using acontrol strategy inspired by how moths track pheromones [16],[17]. Another implemented example was executed by the au-tonomous benthic explorer (ABE), an underwater robot used to1083-4435 © 2014 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.See http://www.ieee.org/publicationsstandards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.Authorized licensed use limited to: Santa Clara University. Downloaded on March 20,2023 at 21:45:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.." 506IEEE/ASME TRANSACTIONS ON MECHATRONICS, VOL. 20, NO. 2, APRIL 2015Gradient-Based Cluster Space Navigationfor Autonomous Surface VesselsThomas Adamek, Member, IEEE, Christopher A. Kitts, Senior Member, IEEE, and Ignacio Mas, Member, IEEEAbstract—This paper presents an experimentally demonstratedgradient-based multirobot technique for adaptively navigatingwithin a parameter ﬁeld. To implement this technique, simulta-neous measurements of the parameter are made at different lo-cations within the ﬁeld by a spatially controlled cluster of mobilerobots. These measurements are shared in order to compute a lo-cal gradient of the ﬁeld. Depending on the task to be achieved,the multirobot cluster is directed with respect to this direction.Moving in or opposite to the gradient direction allows efﬁcientnavigation to local maxima/minima in the ﬁeld, a capability of in-terest for applications such as detecting pollution sources or thelocation of resource-starved areas. Moving perpendicular to thegradient direction allows parameter contours to be navigated, abehavior useful for applications such as deﬁning the extent of aﬁeld or establishing a safety perimeter at a deﬁned ﬁeld level. Thispaper describes the multirobot control technique which combinesa full degree-of-freedom “cluster space” multirobot controller witha gradient-based adaptive navigation capability. Veriﬁcation of thetechnique through ﬁeld experiments using a ﬂeet of three robotickayaks is also presented. Finally, a discussion of results, a review ofchallenges, and a review of ongoing and future work are presented.Index Terms—Adaptive navigation, autonomous surface vessel,cluster space control, gradient-based navigation.I. INTRODUCTIONMULTIROBOT systems have the potential to dramaticallyimpact robotic applications through improved perfor-mance and the enabling of completely new capabilities. Alone,robots offer strength, speed, precision, repeatability, and theability to withstand extreme environments. Combined in a multi-robot system, additional advantages are possible, such as redun-dancy, increased throughput, expanded coverage/availability,and spatially distributed sensing and actuation [1]. Multirobotsystems can support applications ranging from remote [2] andin situsensing [3] to the physical manipulation of objects [4],Manuscript received April 29, 2013; revised July 31, 2013; accepted Novem-ber 16, 2013. Date of publication January 19, 2014; date of current versionOctober 24, 2014. Recommended by Technical Editor H. Gao. This work (el-ements of this work, to include control system development, creation of theexperimental testbed, ﬁeld experimentation, etc.) was supported in part by theSCU Robotic Systems Laboratory, School of Engineering, Sustainability Pro-gram, and Technology Steering Committee; in part by NOAA under GrantNA03OAR4300104 (via subaward UAF 05-0148 from the University of AlaskaFairbanks); and in part by the National Science Foundation under Grant CNS-0619940.T. Adamek and C. A. Kitts are with the Department Mechanical Engineering,Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, CA 95053 USA (e-mail: tadamek@scu.edu;ckitts@scu.edu).I. Mas was with the Department Mechanical Engineering, Santa Clara Uni-versity, Santa Clara, CA 95053 USA. He is now with the Instituto Tecnologicode Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina (e-mail: ignacio.a.mas@gmail.com).Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TMECH.2013.2297152and the domains for such applications include land, sea, air, andspace [5].One characterization of multirobot systems is the degree towhich their functions and spatial characteristics are coordinated.Some applications loosely coordinate such characteristics, suchas the open-loop synchronization of prepositioned manipulatorson an assembly line [6]. Applications requiring capabilities suchas synoptic mapping, in which robot-based sensors are spatiallydistributed throughout a ﬁeld of interest and collect data in asynchronized manner in order to represent the state of the ﬁeld[7], may use closed-loop spatial control to ensure high-qualityresults. Other applications may require even more integratedoperation and relative position control, such as proposed sparsearray space telescopes [8].Our work focused on the highly integrated end of the con-trol spectrum, with target applications that include active escort-ing/guarding [9], [10], object tracking, object manipulation [11],and sparse antenna arrays [12]. Given that these applications re-quire active control of the relative spatial characteristics of therobot formation, we have developed a ﬂexible and powerfulformation-level control architecture, known as the cluster spaceformation control technique [13], which provides a suitable levelof abstraction at the application-formation control interface.The work presented in this paper focuses on the use of mul-tiple, spatially distributed robots to sense a spatially varyingparameter of interest, estimate the local spatial gradient of thisﬁeld, and then navigate with respect to this gradient. This ap-proach offers the ability to navigate with respect to possiblefeatures of interest, such as local maximum/minimum locationsor perhaps along a speciﬁc parameter contour. This is in con-trast to traditional parameter mapping approaches in which asingle platform systematically navigates through a region, of-ten in a “mow-the-lawn” fashion, in order to map an entirearea [14]. If the ultimate goal is to locate/perform gradient-related features/tasks, the multirobot gradient-based mappingcapability offers beneﬁts such as faster identiﬁcation of areasof interest and the ability to dynamically track these features intime-varying ﬁelds.There have been a number of examples of gradient-basednavigation through a parameter ﬁeld by a single robot throughthe use of bioinspired control strategies. In one system, a robotwas built to follow the direction of an odor source [15]. This wasdone using four anemometric and gas sensors to estimate the di-rection of airﬂow carrying the molecules of interest. Given thisbearing estimate, the robot moved toward the odor source using acontrol strategy inspired by how moths track pheromones [16],[17]. Another implemented example was executed by the au-tonomous benthic explorer (ABE), an underwater robot used to1083-4435 © 2014 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.See http://www.ieee.org/publicationsstandards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.Authorized licensed use limited to: Santa Clara University. Downloaded on March 20,2023 at 21:45:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply., 20. https://doi.org/10.1109/TMECH.2013.2297152and.

[14] Free Cooperative Source, et al.. "Gradient-Free Cooperative Source-Seeking of Quadrotor Under Disturbances and." IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, VOL. 72, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025 1969, 20. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIE.2024.3423337I..

[15] Himangshu Kalita, et al.. "Himangshu Kalita ,* Ravi Teja Nallapu ,† Andrew Warren,‡ and Jekan Thangavelautham §.".

[16] An Indoor Connected, et al.. "ICAT: An Indoor Connected and Autonomous Testbed for Zhaofeng Tian1, Yuankai He1, Boyang Tian1, Ren Zhong2, Erfan Foorginejad2, and Weisong Shi1.".

[17] Initial Study, et al.. "Initial Study of Multirobot Adaptive Navigation for Exploring Environmental Vector Fields.".

[18] Franklin  Institute, et al.. "Available  online at www.sciencedirect.com Journal of the Franklin  Institute  356 (2019) 1771–1788." Journal of the Franklin  Institute  356 (2019) 1771–1788, 20. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfranklin.2018.12.011.

[19] Conference Series, et al.. "Journal of Physics: Conference A lobster-inspired multi-robot control strategy for." Journal of Physics: Conference, 20.

[20] Cost Indoor Testbed, et al.. "1A Low-Cost Indoor Testbed for Multirobot Adaptive Scot Tomer, Christopher Kitts, Michael Neumann, Robert McDonald,." 978-1-5386-2014-4/18/$31.00 ©2018 IEEE, 20.

[21] Motion Planning, et al.. "Motion Planning and Collision Avoidance using Navigation Vector Fields Abstract — This paper presents a novel method on the motion.".

[22] Formation Control, et al.. "Citation: Trakas, P .S.; Tantoulas, A.; Bechlioulis, C.P . Formation Control of." 20. https://doi.org/10.3390/app14010213.

[23] Received July, et al.. "Received July 24, 2021, accepted August 19, 2021, date of publication August 25, 2021, date of current version September 10, 2021. Digital Object Identifier 10.1 109/ACCESS.2021.3107854." , (Member, IEEE), CHRISTOPHER A. KITTS, 20.

[24] Robot Object, et al.. "Multi-Robot Object SLAM Using Distributed Variational Inference." 8722 IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS, VOL. 9, NO. 10, OCTOBER 2024, 20.

[25] Short Papers Multirobot Symmetric Formations, et al.. "Multirobot Symmetric Formations for Gradient and Hessian Estimation With Application to Source Seeking." 782 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ROBOTICS, VOL. 35, NO. 3, JUNE 2019, 20.

[26] Scalar Fronts With Multirobot, et al.. "IEEE SYSTEMS JOURNAL, VOL. 14, NO. 3, SEPTEMBER 20203755Navigation of Scalar Fronts With MultirobotClusters in Simulation and ExperimentRobert T. McDonald,S t u d e n tM e m b e r ,I E E E, Matthew Condino,M i c h a e lA l a nN e u m a n n, Member, IEEE,and Christopher A. Kitts,S e n i o rM e m b e r ,I E E EAbstract—Environmental fronts are transition regions charac-terized by a steep gradient in the value of a scalar ﬁeld. Findingand spatially characterizing these fronts is critical for a varietyof scientiﬁc applications; however, such work is challenging andusually performed manually, limited to localized characterization,and/or based on assumptions regarding the structure of the front. Inthis article, we present an automated multirobot control techniqueto ﬁnd and spatially characterize general scalar ﬁeld fronts. Thisis achieved with a multirobot system that adaptively sizes, orients,and translates based on data sampled by each robot in order tospan the width of the front, and to move longitudinally along thefront, reversing direction when the end of the front is reached.This span and scan functionality allows the cluster to spatiallycharacterize the front’s full extent and to enable comprehensivescientiﬁc study of its associated phenomenon. To our knowledge,this is the ﬁrst comprehensive, adaptive multirobot front-followingcontrol strategy proposed for general front structures, and initialveriﬁcation of its capability is provided through both simulation ofbehavior on a large-scale front and experimentation with a simple,small-scale indoor multirobot testbed.Index Terms—Adaptive navigation (AN), adaptive sampling,cluster space control, differential control, formation control,gradient estimation, multirobot formations.I. INTRODUCTIONINAp l a n a rs c a l a rﬁ e l d ,af r o n ti sat r a n s i t i o nr e g i o nc h a r a c -terized by a high gradient of the scalar quantity and whichseparates two regimes having a different, and either a constantor slowly varying scalar value. As depicted in Fig. 1(a), frontscan be described spatially by their width and length. Theirwidth is the distance in the direction of the gradient over whichas u f ﬁ c i e n t l yh i g hg r a d i e n tv a l u ee x i s t s .T h e i rl e n g t hi st h edistance perpendicular to the gradient constituting the longi-tudinal boundary between regimes; the ends of the front are atpoints where the gradient of the transition region drops belowat h r e s h o l d .S i m p l ef r o n t sc a nb et h o u g h to fa sah i g hg r a d i e n tregion centered along a speciﬁc scalar contour and providing atransition between regimes that have different scalar values, suchas the front depicted in Fig. 1(a). More generally, however, thescalar value of the front’s centerline may vary, the scalar width ofManuscript received April 30, 2019; revised September 23, 2019 and January23, 2020; accepted February 21, 2020. Date of publication March 16, 2020;date of current version September 2, 2020. This work was supported by SCURobotic Systems Laboratory Santa Clara University School of Engineering.(Corresponding author: Robert T. McDonald.)The authors are with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, SantaClara University, Santa Clara, CA 95053 USA (e-mail: rmcdonald@scu.edu;mwcondino@gmail.com; maneumann@scu.edu; ckitts@scu.edu).Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/JSYST.2020.2976756 Fig. 1. (a) Idealized front and (b) generalized frontal region. The lines repre-sent equally spaced contours of a scalar ﬁeld, descending in value from left toright, and the highlighted region indicates where the front is located.the front may vary, and the scalar value of the separated regimesmay not be constant, as shown in Fig. 1(b); accordingly, a frontregion is best characterized by thresholds of the gradient or slopeof the scalar ﬁeld rather than thresholds associated with speciﬁcabsolute values of the scalar quantity.The extents of the width and length of any particular frontdepend on the type of front and the scope of the analysis beingconducted. Marine fronts exist for quantities such as tempera-ture, salinity, and turbidity and often have widths of the orderof 1–100 m and lengths of up to hundreds of kilometers, withscalar differences up to several◦C (temperature) or tens of ppm(salinity). Atmospheric fronts, such as weather fronts, exist fortemperature and/or barometric pressure and can have widths andlengths of 1 km to hundreds of kilometers with scalar differencesof the order of 1◦Ct ot e n so f◦C( t e m p e r a t u r e )o ru pt ot e n so fmbars (pressure). Topographic fronts, such as cliffs, often havewidths of 1 m to tens of meters and lengths of 10 m to hundredsof meters with scalar differences of up to hundreds of meters.All of these front types are important in the sense that theyare associated with compelling phenomena, such as marine ecol-ogy, weather, mass/energy transport, etc. One of our particularinterests is in oceanic fronts given the importance of fronts in themarine environment, the challenge in locating and characterizingthem, and our longstanding work in marine robotics. Suchoceanic fronts have been the subject of a number of studies usingdata collectedin situ.F o re x a m p l e ,[ 1 ]e x a m i n e st h ea s s o c i a t i o nbetween seabirds and marine mammals and the temperaturefronts at the boundaries of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current,1937-9234 © 2020 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.Authorized licensed use limited to: Santa Clara University. Downloaded on March 20,2023 at 16:46:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.." IEEE SYSTEMS JOURNAL, VOL. 14, NO. 3, SEPTEMBER 20203755Navigation of Scalar Fronts With MultirobotClusters in Simulation and ExperimentRobert T. McDonald,S t u d e n tM e m b e r ,I E E E, Matthew Condino,M i c h a e lA l a nN e u m a n n, Member, IEEE,and Christopher A. Kitts,S e n i o rM e m b e r ,I E E EAbstract—Environmental fronts are transition regions charac-terized by a steep gradient in the value of a scalar ﬁeld. Findingand spatially characterizing these fronts is critical for a varietyof scientiﬁc applications; however, such work is challenging andusually performed manually, limited to localized characterization,and/or based on assumptions regarding the structure of the front. Inthis article, we present an automated multirobot control techniqueto ﬁnd and spatially characterize general scalar ﬁeld fronts. Thisis achieved with a multirobot system that adaptively sizes, orients,and translates based on data sampled by each robot in order tospan the width of the front, and to move longitudinally along thefront, reversing direction when the end of the front is reached.This span and scan functionality allows the cluster to spatiallycharacterize the front’s full extent and to enable comprehensivescientiﬁc study of its associated phenomenon. To our knowledge,this is the ﬁrst comprehensive, adaptive multirobot front-followingcontrol strategy proposed for general front structures, and initialveriﬁcation of its capability is provided through both simulation ofbehavior on a large-scale front and experimentation with a simple,small-scale indoor multirobot testbed.Index Terms—Adaptive navigation (AN), adaptive sampling,cluster space control, differential control, formation control,gradient estimation, multirobot formations.I. INTRODUCTIONINAp l a n a rs c a l a rﬁ e l d ,af r o n ti sat r a n s i t i o nr e g i o nc h a r a c -terized by a high gradient of the scalar quantity and whichseparates two regimes having a different, and either a constantor slowly varying scalar value. As depicted in Fig. 1(a), frontscan be described spatially by their width and length. Theirwidth is the distance in the direction of the gradient over whichas u f ﬁ c i e n t l yh i g hg r a d i e n tv a l u ee x i s t s .T h e i rl e n g t hi st h edistance perpendicular to the gradient constituting the longi-tudinal boundary between regimes; the ends of the front are atpoints where the gradient of the transition region drops belowat h r e s h o l d .S i m p l ef r o n t sc a nb et h o u g h to fa sah i g hg r a d i e n tregion centered along a speciﬁc scalar contour and providing atransition between regimes that have different scalar values, suchas the front depicted in Fig. 1(a). More generally, however, thescalar value of the front’s centerline may vary, the scalar width ofManuscript received April 30, 2019; revised September 23, 2019 and January23, 2020; accepted February 21, 2020. Date of publication March 16, 2020;date of current version September 2, 2020. This work was supported by SCURobotic Systems Laboratory Santa Clara University School of Engineering.(Corresponding author: Robert T. McDonald.)The authors are with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, SantaClara University, Santa Clara, CA 95053 USA (e-mail: rmcdonald@scu.edu;mwcondino@gmail.com; maneumann@scu.edu; ckitts@scu.edu).Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/JSYST.2020.2976756, 20. https://doi.org/10.1109/JSYST.2020.2976756.

[27] Gradient Based Tracking, et al.. "Non-Gradient Based Tracking of Environmental Field Isolines in a Changing Medium by." IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATIC CONTROL, VOL. XX, NO. X, MONTH XXXX 1,.

[28] Obstacle Avoidance Policies, et al.. "1068IEEE/ASME TRANSACTIONS ON MECHATRONICS, VOL. 17, NO. 6, DECEMBER 2012Obstacle Avoidance Policies for Cluster SpaceControl of Nonholonomic Multirobot SystemsIgnacio Mas,S t u d e n tM e m b e r ,I E E E, and Christopher Kitts, Senior Member, IEEEAbstract—Thecluster spacecontrol technique promotes simpli-ﬁed speciﬁcation and monitoring of the motion of mobile multi-robot systems of limited size. In this publication, we summarizethe deﬁnition of the cluster space framework and introduce a mul-tirobot cluster space controller speciﬁc for unicycle-like nonholo-nomic mobile robots. The controller produces cluster commandsthat translate into valid robot-level motions. We then study theclosed-loop system stability in the Lyapunov sense. Two differentobstacle avoidance algorithms are proposed and the stability ofthe resulting systems is also addressed. Experimental tests with athree-robot system and simulation results with a ten-robot systemverify the functionality of the proposed approaches.Index Terms—Collision avoidance, mobile robots, multirobotsystems, robot control.I. INTRODUCTIONROBOTIC systems offer many advantages for accomplish-ing a wide variety of tasks given their strength, speed,precision, repeatability, and ability to withstand extreme en-vironments. Whereas most robots perform these tasks in anisolated manner, interest is growing in the use of tightly in-teracting multirobot systems to improve performance in currentapplications and to enable new capabilities. Potential advantagesof multirobot systems include redundancy, increased coverageand throughput, ﬂexible reconﬁgurability, and spatially diversefunctionality [1]. For mobile systems, one of the key technicalconsiderations is the technique used to coordinate the motionsof the individual vehicles. A wide variety of techniques havebeen and continue to be explored, drawing on work in controltheory, robotics, and biology [2] and applicable for robotic ap-plications throughout land, sea, air, and space. Notable workin this area includes the use of leader–follower techniques, inwhich follower robots control their position relative to a desig-nated leader [3]–[5]. A variant of this is leader–follower chains,in which follower robots control their position relative to one ormore local leaders, which, in turn, are following other local lead-ers in a network that ultimately is led by a designated leader [6].Manuscript received July 29, 2010; revised December 30, 2010 and April20, 2011; accepted May 28, 2011. Date of publication July 7, 2011; dateof current version August 24, 2012. Recommended by Technical EditorP. X. Liu. This work was supported by a variety of funding sources to includeSanta Clara University Technology Steering Committee under Grant TSC131and National Science Foundation under Grant CNS-0619940. Any opinions,ﬁndings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material arethose of the authors and do not necessarily reﬂect the views of the NationalScience Foundation.The authors are with the Robotic Systems Laboratory, Santa Clara University,Santa Clara, CA 95053 USA (e-mail: iamas@scu.edu; ckitts@scu.edu).Color versions of one or more of the ﬁgures in this paper are available onlineat http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TMECH.2011.2159988Several approaches employ artiﬁcial ﬁelds as a construct to es-tablish formation keeping forces for individual robots within aformation. For example, potential ﬁelds may be used to imple-ment repulsive forces among neighboring robots and betweenrobots and objects in the ﬁeld in order to symmetrically surroundan object to be transported [7]. Potential ﬁelds and behavioralmotion primitives have also been used to compute reactive robotdrive commands that balance the need to arrive at the ﬁnal des-tination, to maintain relative locations within the formation, andto avoid obstacles [8]–[10]. As another example, the virtualbodies and artiﬁcial potentials approach uses potential ﬁelds tomaintain the relative distances both between neighboring robotsas well as between robots and reference points, or “virtual lead-ers,” that deﬁne the “virtual body” of the formation [11]–[13].Some methods rely on the deﬁnition and merging of differenttask functions [14], [15]. Other techniques focus on generatingrobot trajectories based on “rigid body” constraints [16].A. Multirobot Obstacle AvoidanceFor any multirobot formation control strategy, avoiding col-lisions with obstacles and with other members of the formationis critical. For cases where the environment is well known andpredictable,ap r i o r ipath planning may be used [17]. For moredynamic environments, typical strategies include both discreteand continuous approaches. Discrete strategies typically involvethe encoding of collision avoidance behaviors in IF–THEN pro-duction rule constructs, implemented in a broader reasoningarchitecture that balances this behavior with others [18]–[20].One of the primary continuous strategies, used for both mo-bile robots as well as serial manipulators, is the use of po-tential ﬁelds for establishing avoidance forces or velocity setpoints [21]–[23]; many enhancements have been proposed toaddress inherent drawbacks of this strategy [24]–[26]. Previ-ous efforts at incorporating collision avoidance into multirobotformation control systems have generally relied on superimpos-ing a robot’s formation control and/or destination-seeking com-mands with potential ﬁeld-based avoidance functions appliedto any nearby obstacles, which may include other members ofthe formation [8], [10], [27]–[29]. When maintaining formationshape is critical, the avoidance function may be applied to thevirtual body, such as in [30], where a virtual perimeter is estab-lished about the formation and upon which collision avoidanceforces may act.B. Cluster Space ApproachThe work presented in this article extends the previouslydevelopedcluster spaceframework for formation control of1083-4435/$26.00 © 2011 IEEEAuthorized licensed use limited to: Santa Clara University. Downloaded on March 20,2023 at 16:58:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.." 1068IEEE/ASME TRANSACTIONS ON MECHATRONICS, VOL. 17, NO. 6, DECEMBER 2012Obstacle Avoidance Policies for Cluster SpaceControl of Nonholonomic Multirobot SystemsIgnacio Mas,S t u d e n tM e m b e r ,I E E E, and Christopher Kitts, Senior Member, IEEEAbstract—Thecluster spacecontrol technique promotes simpli-ﬁed speciﬁcation and monitoring of the motion of mobile multi-robot systems of limited size. In this publication, we summarizethe deﬁnition of the cluster space framework and introduce a mul-tirobot cluster space controller speciﬁc for unicycle-like nonholo-nomic mobile robots. The controller produces cluster commandsthat translate into valid robot-level motions. We then study theclosed-loop system stability in the Lyapunov sense. Two differentobstacle avoidance algorithms are proposed and the stability ofthe resulting systems is also addressed. Experimental tests with athree-robot system and simulation results with a ten-robot systemverify the functionality of the proposed approaches.Index Terms—Collision avoidance, mobile robots, multirobotsystems, robot control.I. INTRODUCTIONROBOTIC systems offer many advantages for accomplish-ing a wide variety of tasks given their strength, speed,precision, repeatability, and ability to withstand extreme en-vironments. Whereas most robots perform these tasks in anisolated manner, interest is growing in the use of tightly in-teracting multirobot systems to improve performance in currentapplications and to enable new capabilities. Potential advantagesof multirobot systems include redundancy, increased coverageand throughput, ﬂexible reconﬁgurability, and spatially diversefunctionality [1]. For mobile systems, one of the key technicalconsiderations is the technique used to coordinate the motionsof the individual vehicles. A wide variety of techniques havebeen and continue to be explored, drawing on work in controltheory, robotics, and biology [2] and applicable for robotic ap-plications throughout land, sea, air, and space. Notable workin this area includes the use of leader–follower techniques, inwhich follower robots control their position relative to a desig-nated leader [3]–[5]. A variant of this is leader–follower chains,in which follower robots control their position relative to one ormore local leaders, which, in turn, are following other local lead-ers in a network that ultimately is led by a designated leader [6].Manuscript received July 29, 2010; revised December 30, 2010 and April20, 2011; accepted May 28, 2011. Date of publication July 7, 2011; dateof current version August 24, 2012. Recommended by Technical EditorP. X. Liu. This work was supported by a variety of funding sources to includeSanta Clara University Technology Steering Committee under Grant TSC131and National Science Foundation under Grant CNS-0619940. Any opinions,ﬁndings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material arethose of the authors and do not necessarily reﬂect the views of the NationalScience Foundation.The authors are with the Robotic Systems Laboratory, Santa Clara University,Santa Clara, CA 95053 USA (e-mail: iamas@scu.edu; ckitts@scu.edu).Color versions of one or more of the ﬁgures in this paper are available onlineat http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TMECH.2011.2159988Several approaches employ artiﬁcial ﬁelds as a construct to es-tablish formation keeping forces for individual robots within aformation. For example, potential ﬁelds may be used to imple-ment repulsive forces among neighboring robots and betweenrobots and objects in the ﬁeld in order to symmetrically surroundan object to be transported [7]. Potential ﬁelds and behavioralmotion primitives have also been used to compute reactive robotdrive commands that balance the need to arrive at the ﬁnal des-tination, to maintain relative locations within the formation, andto avoid obstacles [8]–[10]. As another example, the virtualbodies and artiﬁcial potentials approach uses potential ﬁelds tomaintain the relative distances both between neighboring robotsas well as between robots and reference points, or “virtual lead-ers,” that deﬁne the “virtual body” of the formation [11]–[13].Some methods rely on the deﬁnition and merging of differenttask functions [14], [15]. Other techniques focus on generatingrobot trajectories based on “rigid body” constraints [16].A. Multirobot Obstacle AvoidanceFor any multirobot formation control strategy, avoiding col-lisions with obstacles and with other members of the formationis critical. For cases where the environment is well known andpredictable,ap r i o r ipath planning may be used [17]. For moredynamic environments, typical strategies include both discreteand continuous approaches. Discrete strategies typically involvethe encoding of collision avoidance behaviors in IF–THEN pro-duction rule constructs, implemented in a broader reasoningarchitecture that balances this behavior with others [18]–[20].One of the primary continuous strategies, used for both mo-bile robots as well as serial manipulators, is the use of po-tential ﬁelds for establishing avoidance forces or velocity setpoints [21]–[23]; many enhancements have been proposed toaddress inherent drawbacks of this strategy [24]–[26]. Previ-ous efforts at incorporating collision avoidance into multirobotformation control systems have generally relied on superimpos-ing a robot’s formation control and/or destination-seeking com-mands with potential ﬁeld-based avoidance functions appliedto any nearby obstacles, which may include other members ofthe formation [8], [10], [27]–[29]. When maintaining formationshape is critical, the avoidance function may be applied to thevirtual body, such as in [30], where a virtual perimeter is estab-lished about the formation and upon which collision avoidanceforces may act.B. Cluster Space ApproachThe work presented in this article extends the previouslydevelopedcluster spaceframework for formation control of1083-4435/$26.00 © 2011 IEEEAuthorized licensed use limited to: Santa Clara University. Downloaded on March 20,2023 at 16:58:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply., 20. https://doi.org/10.1109/TMECH.2011.2159988Several.

[29] Obstacle Avoidance Using Complex Vector Fields  Tommie Liddy, et al.. "Obstacle Avoidance Using Complex Vector Fields  Tommie Liddy1, Tien-Fu Lu1, Peter Lozo2, David Harvey3 1The School of Mechanical Engineering The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia {tommie.liddy,tien-fu.lu}@adelaide.edu.au 2Weapons Systems Division Defence Science and Technology Organisation(DSTO) PO BOX 1500 Edinburgh, SA 5111, Australia peter.lozo@dsto.defence.gov.au 3Aerospace Concepts 17 Yallourn St, Fyshwick, ACT 2609, Australia david.harvey@concepts.aero   Abstract Obstacle avoidance is an important part of an autonomous navigation system.  One method of obstacle avoidance is the use of simple vector fields.  Simple vector fields used for obstacle avoidance consist of a repulsive force centred on the obstacle (obstacle vector field) that guides the vehicle away from the obstacle.  This is added directly to an existing vector field (environmental vector field) that guides the vehicle towards the goal to produce a resultant force on a vehicle.  This method has been shown to avoid obstacles but does have limitations, the most common of which is that the vehicle can become trapped in a ‘U’ shaped dead end.  This study outlines a method of vector field navigation that blends the environmental and obstacle vector fields instead of adding them directly together.  The navigation method will also use rotational vector fields for obstacle avoidance instead of repulsive forces.  It will be shown that this method can be used for avoiding obstacles as well as evading the ‘U’ shaped or dead end trap. 1 Introduction The use of vector fields is a simple and low cost method of both navigation and obstacle avoidance for an autonomous vehicle.  To incorporate obstacle avoidance into the navigation method two vectors have been created and combined.  The first vector usually represents the desired vehicle behaviour, created with an attractive force towards a goal or waypoint.  The other vector is created by the obstacles detected or known by the vehicle and usually acts away from the obstacles.  The standard combination method used is to add these vectors together [Borenstein and Koren, 1989].  Vectors are commonly created in a grid [Kim et al., 1999; Loizuo et al., 2003] but can also be created based on the vehicles position with respect to the desired goal or waypoint [Liddy et al., 2007].  If the vectors are created in a grid there will be less calculation in real time as long as the environment does not change.  If the environment changes then the entire grid has to be recalculated.  If the vectors are created based on the relative positions of the vehicle, waypoint and obstacles [Liddy et al., 2007] then the calculations must be done repeatedly in real time but a change in the environment will not alter the number o f  calculations required.  Vector field navigation systems often have one main weakness.  The navigation systems are unable to escape from within a concave or ‘U’ shaped dead end.  The vehicle often gets caught in a navigational loop where the same path is repeated continuously.  To overcome this problem many navigation systems use a secondary navigation protocol [Vadakkepat et al., 2000].  These secondary protocols often use a monitored value or specific environmental configuration to trigger the switch from one to the other and back again [Borenstein and Koren, 1989].." 19.

[30] Optimal Output Synchronization, et al.. "Optimal Output Synchronization of Euler–Lagrange Systems With Uncertain Time-Varying Quadratic." 1648 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CYBERNETICS, VOL. 55, NO. 4, APRIL 2025, 20. https://doi.org/10.1109/TCYB.2025.3537764..

[31] Direct Available, et al.. "IFAC PapersOnLine 53-2 (2020)  9256–9261 Available online at www.sciencedirect.com." ∗∗Faculty of Control Systems and Robotics, ITMO University, St., 20. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ifacol.2020.12.2215.

[32] Precise Landing, et al.. "Precise Landing of Autonomous Aerial Vehicles Vinicius Mariano Gonçalves , Ryan McLaughlin, and Guilherme A. S. Pereira." IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS, VOL. 5, NO. 3, JULY 2020 4337, 20.

[33] Cluster Space Speci, et al.. "Cluster Space Speciﬁcation and Control of Mobile Christopher A. Kitts , Senior Member, IEEE , and Ignacio Mas , Student Member, IEEE." IEEE/ASME TRANSACTIONS ON MECHATRONICS, VOL. 14, NO. 2, APRIL 2009 207, 20.

[34] International Design Engineering Technical Conferences, et al.. "1 © 2019 by ASME  Proceedings of the ASME 2019 International Design Engineering Technical Conferences and Computers and Information in Engineering Conference IDETC/CIE2019 August 18-21, 2019, Anaheim, CA, USA   IDETC2019-97974 INDOOR TESTBED FOR VECTOR FIELD MULTIROBOT ADAPTIVE NAVIGATION: FEASIBILITY STUDY   Danop Rajabhandharaks1, Robert T. McDonald, Michael A. Neumann, Christopher A. Kitts Robotic Systems Laboratory, Santa Clara University Santa Clara, CA, USA ABSTRACT Multirobot adaptive navigation maneuvers a multi-vehicle system based on characteristics of the environment to autonomously localize features of interest. This navigation method can be more time and energy efficient than conventional navigation methods. Most work in this area explores scalar fields, where a single characteristic value is associated with every point in the environment. This work is an initial testbed exploration of adaptive navigation for vector fields, where every point in the environment is associated with a multi-parameter value. A vector field can represent a single physical quantity such as water/air flow or multiple simultaneous and collocated scalar quantities such as temperature and gas concentration. The contribution of this work is the extension of an existing adaptive navigation testbed to support vector field representations, navigation, and further research. Vector fields are generated using a large-format printer to print 8-bit colored floor mats. Mobile robots, equipped with RGB sensors, sense the color and, through calibration, estimate the underlying vector field. This paper will walk through our process of generating vector fields and a calibration method to be used for adaptive navigation. Successful results from two adaptive navigation experiments are shown in the paper: finding a source with a single robot and using a two-robot formation to straddle a crest of high velocity flow in a vector field. Keywords: Multirobot Adaptive Navigation, Cooperative Control, Mobile Sensor Network, Source Seeking  1. INTRODUCTION  In multirobot adaptive navigation, vehicles are maneuvered based on some measurable characteristics of the environment. A group of robots performs simultaneous, distributed sensing of a local area and autonomously navigate the area to localize features of interest within the field. This method can be more                                                              1 Contact author: drajabhandharaks@scu.edu time and energy efficient than conventional navigation methods, whose navigation techniques typically involve guiding vehicles through predefined paths or a series of waypoints.  So far, scalar fields have been the focal point in the multirobot adaptive navigation literature. A scalar field has a single value associated with every point in the field. Examples of scalar field quantities include temperature, humidity, gas concentration, grayscale level, ocean depth, etc. Recent work in the literature includes plume front tracking [1], level curve tracking [2-3], and extremum seeking [4-5]. Most of this work is in simulation or includes limited experimentation. The Robotic Systems Laboratory (RSL) at Santa Clara University has also researched multirobot adaptive navigation for scalar fields. Control objectives developed for scalar fields include: finding local extrema, moving along a given contour level, locating and traveling along a ridge or trench. References [6-9] are examples of our work, ranging from simulations to field experiments.   Multirobot adaptive navigation can also be applied to vector fields. A vector field has a multi-parameter vector value associated at every point in the field. Examples of vector fields are physical quantities such as gravity, magnetic fields, and the velocity of water/air. Note that these quantities have both magnitude and direction, though they could also represent a composite of multiple scalar quantities at every point in a field (such as temperature and gas concentration). Applications for adaptive navigation in vector fields are various. It can be used to locate a simultaneous source of fire and gas leak (multiple aggregated scalar values) [10], navigate through wind speed and direction to localize and quantify natural gas emission [11], follow an undertow to guide rescue teams to swimmers swept away, and determine the location of the fastest flow rate in the river in order to aid navigation effort and save fuel.." 1 © 2019 by ASME  Proceedings of the ASME 2019 International Design Engineering Technical Conferences and Computers and Information in Engineering Conference IDETC/CIE2019 August 18-21, 2019, Anaheim, CA, USA   IDETC2019-97974 INDOOR TESTBED FOR VECTOR FIELD MULTIROBOT ADAPTIVE NAVIGATION: FEASIBILITY STUDY   Danop Rajabhandharaks1, Robert T. McDonald, Michael A. Neumann, Christopher A. Kitts Robotic Systems Laboratory, Santa Clara University Santa Clara, CA, USA ABSTRACT Multirobot adaptive navigation maneuvers a multi-vehicle system based on characteristics of the environment to autonomously localize features of interest. This navigation method can be more time and energy efficient than conventional navigation methods. Most work in this area explores scalar fields, where a single characteristic value is associated with every point in the environment. This work is an initial testbed exploration of adaptive navigation for vector fields, where every point in the environment is associated with a multi-parameter value. A vector field can represent a single physical quantity such as water/air flow or multiple simultaneous and collocated scalar quantities such as temperature and gas concentration. The contribution of this work is the extension of an existing adaptive navigation testbed to support vector field representations, navigation, and further research. Vector fields are generated using a large-format printer to print 8-bit colored floor mats. Mobile robots, equipped with RGB sensors, sense the color and, through calibration, estimate the underlying vector field. This paper will walk through our process of generating vector fields and a calibration method to be used for adaptive navigation. Successful results from two adaptive navigation experiments are shown in the paper: finding a source with a single robot and using a two-robot formation to straddle a crest of high velocity flow in a vector field. Keywords: Multirobot Adaptive Navigation, Cooperative Control, Mobile Sensor Network, Source Seeking  1. INTRODUCTION  In multirobot adaptive navigation, vehicles are maneuvered based on some measurable characteristics of the environment. A group of robots performs simultaneous, distributed sensing of a local area and autonomously navigate the area to localize features of interest within the field. This method can be more                                                              1 Contact author: drajabhandharaks@scu.edu time and energy efficient than conventional navigation methods, whose navigation techniques typically involve guiding vehicles through predefined paths or a series of waypoints.  So far, scalar fields have been the focal point in the multirobot adaptive navigation literature. A scalar field has a single value associated with every point in the field. Examples of scalar field quantities include temperature, humidity, gas concentration, grayscale level, ocean depth, etc. Recent work in the literature includes plume front tracking [1], level curve tracking [2-3], and extremum seeking [4-5]. Most of this work is in simulation or includes limited experimentation. The Robotic Systems Laboratory (RSL) at Santa Clara University has also researched multirobot adaptive navigation for scalar fields. Control objectives developed for scalar fields include: finding local extrema, moving along a given contour level, locating and traveling along a ridge or trench. References [6-9] are examples of our work, ranging from simulations to field experiments.   Multirobot adaptive navigation can also be applied to vector fields. A vector field has a multi-parameter vector value associated at every point in the field. Examples of vector fields are physical quantities such as gravity, magnetic fields, and the velocity of water/air. Note that these quantities have both magnitude and direction, though they could also represent a composite of multiple scalar quantities at every point in a field (such as temperature and gas concentration). Applications for adaptive navigation in vector fields are various. It can be used to locate a simultaneous source of fire and gas leak (multiple aggregated scalar values) [10], navigate through wind speed and direction to localize and quantify natural gas emission [11], follow an undertow to guide rescue teams to swimmers swept away, and determine the location of the fastest flow rate in the river in order to aid navigation effort and save fuel., 20.

[35] Intell Robot Syst, et al.. "J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:643–660 DOI 10.1007/s10846-016-0445-x." 20. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10846-016-0445-x.

[36] Digital Object Identifier, et al.. "Received 23 March 2023, accepted 31 March 2023, date of publication 5 April 2023, date of current version 12 April 2023. Digital Object Identifier 10.1 109/ACCESS.2023.3264508." Control and Robotics, 20. https://doi.org/10.13039/501100011033,.

[37] Cambridge University Press, et al.. "Robotica (2015) volume 33, pp. 463–497. © Cambridge University Press 2014 doi:10.1017/S0263574714000289." Robotica (2015) volume 33, pp. 463–497. © Cambridge University Press 2014, 20. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0263574714000289.

[38] Direct Roboticsand, et al.. "RoboticsandAutonomousSystems69(2015)52–67 Contents lists available at ScienceDirect." RoboticsandAutonomousSystems69(2015)52–67, 20.

[39] Adaptive Navigation, et al.. "3-D Adaptive Navigation: Multirobot Formation Control for Seeking and Tracking of a Moving Source." 978-1-7821-2734-7/20/$31.00 ©2020 IEEE, 20.

[40] System Integration, et al.. "SICE Journal of Control, Measurement, and System ISSN: 1882-4889 (Print) 1884-9970 (Online) Journal homepage: www.tandfonline.com/journals/tmsi20." SICE Journal of Control, Measurement, and System, 20. https://doi.org/10.9746/jcmsi.10.495.

[41] Free Guiding Vector Field, et al.. "Singularity-Free Guiding Vector Field for Weijia Yao , Héctor Garcia de Marina , Bohuan Lin , and Ming Cao." 1206 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ROBOTICS, VOL. 37, NO. 4, AUGUST 2021, 20.

[42] Sparsity Structure, et al.. "Sparsity Structure and Optimality of Multi-Robot Coverage Control." IEEE CONTROL SYSTEMS LETTERS, VOL. 4, NO. 1, JANUARY 2020 13, 20. https://doi.org/10.1109/LCSYS.2019.2921513has.

[43] Robot Controllers, et al.. "Co-Evolution of Multi -Robot Controllers and Task Cues for Off -World Open Pit Mining Virtual  Conference 19 –23 October 2020." Virtual  Conference 19 –23 October 2020, 20.

[44] Spiral Search Pattern, et al.. "Spiral Search Pattern for Scalable Assemblages of rewed Surface Vehicles.".

[45] Ordering Platoon Control, et al.. "Spontaneous-Ordering Platoon Control for Multi- Robot Path Navigation Using Guiding Vector Fields.".

[46] Structured Isosurface Mapping, et al.. "Structured Isosurface Mapping of 3D Scalar Fields with Mobile Sensor Networks Robert K. Lee, Christopher A. Kitts, Michael A. Neumann  Robotic Systems Laboratory, Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, United States of America RLee@scu.edu Abstract—Adaptive Navigation (AN) strategies compute and adjust a vehicle’s trajectory using realtime measurements of the environment. AN techniques can reduce time and energy needed to explore scalar characteristics (e.g., temperature, humidity) of regions of interest when compared to conventional navigation methods. Mobile sensor networks can improve AN performance by allowing for cooperative and spatially-dispersed sensing to attain realtime information of the local scalar field structure, which can be used to inform navigation decisions. This paper presents results of a continuing program to develop, verify, and experimentally implement mission-level AN capabilities in three-dimensional (3D) space using our unique multilayer control architecture for multiple vehicles. In particular, this work presents a new controller for isosurface mapping with structured slicing that is perpendicular to the estimated local field gradient. This can result in more cost-effective and efficient surface characterization while also simplifying operation for a supervisor. We verify functionality using high-fidelity simulations of drone clusters which account for vehicle dynamics, outdoor wind gust disturbances, position sensor inaccuracy, and scalar field sensor noise. Keywords—adaptive navigation, cluster space control,  contour mapping, cooperative sensing, isosurface mapping, mobile sensor network, scalar fields I. INTRODUCTION Adaptive Navigation (AN) strategies allow an agent to autonomously alter its trajectory or direction based on realtime measurements of the environment. One advanced class of AN strategies autonomously navigate(s) agents to or along features of interest within previously unkown continuous scalar. Scalar fields, described more thoroughly in [1], represent phenomena such as temperature or humidity, where a single parameter is associated with each location within a region of interest. 2D scalar fields can include features such as extrema, contours, saddle points, fronts etc. For 3D fields, features include extrema, iso-surfaces, and plumes. For applications such as exploration of unknown fields or responding to a changing field during a disaster, AN can significantly reduce the time and/or cost of locating and characterizing features of interest, compared to conventional methods which require exhaustive mapping of an entire region. Comprehensive surveys of scalar field AN research in 2D and 3D regions can be found in [1][2][3][4]. Due to space constraints, this paper focuses on autonomous 3D scalar field isosurface mapping; a brief literature review follows. Isosurfaces are collections of points in a 3D region which have the same scalar value; they are the 3D extension of 2D contour lines. Identifying the location and characterizing the shape of isosurfaces can inform the extent of a phenomena, define hazardous regions, etc. A single vehicle simulation in [5] implemented a control low for a simplified nonholonomic robot model allowing the agent to orbit static and dynamic isosurfaces while cycling vertically between two predefined altitudes. Multivehicle isosurface navigation has also been demonstrated in simulation by typically assuming negligible robot dynamics and limited external disturbances. Prior research [6] utilized Hessian information to track the principal lines of surface curvature of a noisy 3D level set with a robot formation in simulation. The work in [7] simulated two marine vessels in a fixed formation with data from external sensor networks following the isosurface of a dynamic plume  while assuming ideal sensor measurements and an exponentially decaying external disturbance. In [8], a control law enabling a team of UAVs to independently track dynamic isosurfaces  while evenly distributing  themselves vertically was described and simulated. Our own work with mobile sensor networks to perform scalar field AN has been extensive. We have developed a comprehensive suite of 2D control primitives, all of which have been verified in simulation and experiment, and with several demonstrated in fielded systems [1]. With respect to 3D AN, recent work [2] further extended AN state of the art with various innovative mission-level capabilities and introduced mapping of isosurfaces in a structured manner, verified through high-fidelity simulation. This paper extends that work to allow for structured isosurface mapping with planar slicing that is perpendicular to the estimated local field gradient; compared to our prior approach, this can allow the most valuable portions of a surface to be characterized first and can accelerate the characterization process. Functionality of this new controller is verified with high-fidelity simulations that include vehicle dynamics, outdoor wind gust disturbances, position sensor inaccuracy, and scalar field sensor noise. II. STRUCTURED ISOSURFACE MAPPING The structured isosurface mapping mission consists of locating and then navigating along the surface of interest sdes to characterize its shape through a systematic ‘rendering’ of the surface made by contour tracking in periodically spaced planar slices of the surface. The concept is notionally depicted in Fig. 1 where an Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle (UAV) cluster navigates along a contour in a given plane which consists of simultaneously performing isosurface navigation while constrained to a plane that intersects the surface. In previous work [2], isosurface mapping was performed with constraint planes perpendicular to a user-specified vector !"#, which generated the dashed contour 2022 IEEE Sensors | 978-1-6654-8464-0/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/SENSORS52175.2022.9967029Authorized licensed use limited to: Santa Clara University. Downloaded on March 20,2023 at 16:46:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.." Structured Isosurface Mapping of 3D Scalar Fields with Mobile Sensor Networks Robert K. Lee, Christopher A. Kitts, Michael A. Neumann  Robotic Systems Laboratory, Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, United States of America RLee@scu.edu Abstract—Adaptive Navigation (AN) strategies compute and adjust a vehicle’s trajectory using realtime measurements of the environment. AN techniques can reduce time and energy needed to explore scalar characteristics (e.g., temperature, humidity) of regions of interest when compared to conventional navigation methods. Mobile sensor networks can improve AN performance by allowing for cooperative and spatially-dispersed sensing to attain realtime information of the local scalar field structure, which can be used to inform navigation decisions. This paper presents results of a continuing program to develop, verify, and experimentally implement mission-level AN capabilities in three-dimensional (3D) space using our unique multilayer control architecture for multiple vehicles. In particular, this work presents a new controller for isosurface mapping with structured slicing that is perpendicular to the estimated local field gradient. This can result in more cost-effective and efficient surface characterization while also simplifying operation for a supervisor. We verify functionality using high-fidelity simulations of drone clusters which account for vehicle dynamics, outdoor wind gust disturbances, position sensor inaccuracy, and scalar field sensor noise. Keywords—adaptive navigation, cluster space control,  contour mapping, cooperative sensing, isosurface mapping, mobile sensor network, scalar fields I. INTRODUCTION Adaptive Navigation (AN) strategies allow an agent to autonomously alter its trajectory or direction based on realtime measurements of the environment. One advanced class of AN strategies autonomously navigate(s) agents to or along features of interest within previously unkown continuous scalar. Scalar fields, described more thoroughly in [1], represent phenomena such as temperature or humidity, where a single parameter is associated with each location within a region of interest. 2D scalar fields can include features such as extrema, contours, saddle points, fronts etc. For 3D fields, features include extrema, iso-surfaces, and plumes. For applications such as exploration of unknown fields or responding to a changing field during a disaster, AN can significantly reduce the time and/or cost of locating and characterizing features of interest, compared to conventional methods which require exhaustive mapping of an entire region. Comprehensive surveys of scalar field AN research in 2D and 3D regions can be found in [1][2][3][4]. Due to space constraints, this paper focuses on autonomous 3D scalar field isosurface mapping; a brief literature review follows. Isosurfaces are collections of points in a 3D region which have the same scalar value; they are the 3D extension of 2D contour lines. Identifying the location and characterizing the shape of isosurfaces can inform the extent of a phenomena, define hazardous regions, etc. A single vehicle simulation in [5] implemented a control low for a simplified nonholonomic robot model allowing the agent to orbit static and dynamic isosurfaces while cycling vertically between two predefined altitudes. Multivehicle isosurface navigation has also been demonstrated in simulation by typically assuming negligible robot dynamics and limited external disturbances. Prior research [6] utilized Hessian information to track the principal lines of surface curvature of a noisy 3D level set with a robot formation in simulation. The work in [7] simulated two marine vessels in a fixed formation with data from external sensor networks following the isosurface of a dynamic plume  while assuming ideal sensor measurements and an exponentially decaying external disturbance. In [8], a control law enabling a team of UAVs to independently track dynamic isosurfaces  while evenly distributing  themselves vertically was described and simulated. Our own work with mobile sensor networks to perform scalar field AN has been extensive. We have developed a comprehensive suite of 2D control primitives, all of which have been verified in simulation and experiment, and with several demonstrated in fielded systems [1]. With respect to 3D AN, recent work [2] further extended AN state of the art with various innovative mission-level capabilities and introduced mapping of isosurfaces in a structured manner, verified through high-fidelity simulation. This paper extends that work to allow for structured isosurface mapping with planar slicing that is perpendicular to the estimated local field gradient; compared to our prior approach, this can allow the most valuable portions of a surface to be characterized first and can accelerate the characterization process. Functionality of this new controller is verified with high-fidelity simulations that include vehicle dynamics, outdoor wind gust disturbances, position sensor inaccuracy, and scalar field sensor noise. II. STRUCTURED ISOSURFACE MAPPING The structured isosurface mapping mission consists of locating and then navigating along the surface of interest sdes to characterize its shape through a systematic ‘rendering’ of the surface made by contour tracking in periodically spaced planar slices of the surface. The concept is notionally depicted in Fig. 1 where an Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle (UAV) cluster navigates along a contour in a given plane which consists of simultaneously performing isosurface navigation while constrained to a plane that intersects the surface. In previous work [2], isosurface mapping was performed with constraint planes perpendicular to a user-specified vector !"#, which generated the dashed contour 2022 IEEE Sensors | 978-1-6654-8464-0/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/SENSORS52175.2022.9967029Authorized licensed use limited to: Santa Clara University. Downloaded on March 20,2023 at 16:46:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply., 20. https://doi.org/10.1109/SENSORS52175.2022.9967029Authorized.

[47] Unifying Control Architecture, et al.. "IEEE/ASME TRANSACTIONS ON MECHATRONICS 1Unifying Control Architecture for ReactiveParticle SwarmsShae T. Hart, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, and Christopher A. Kitts, Senior Member, IEEEAbstract—Swarm control strategies allow for decentral-ized control of many simple robots to perform collectivebehaviors based on local interactions. Despite the broadapplications of swarm robotics, there lacks a generalizedand uniﬁed set of control equations for swarms. First, thiswork presents a novel mathematical control law for decen-tralized velocity control of planar, homogeneous swarmscalled reactive particle swarms (RPS). The architecture uni-ﬁes the development of new RPS behaviors. The weightedsummation of simple base behaviors and external com-mand inputs form complex composite behaviors. Second, aseries of simulated and on-hardware case studies demon-strate the utility and ﬂexibility of the architecture. Third, thiswork establishes a library of veriﬁed RPS base behaviors.Index Terms—Control design, control system synthe-sis, decentralized control, hardware-in-the-loop simulation,multirobot systems, swarm robotics, velocity control.NOMENCLATUREACR Artiﬁcial communication range.Ci(dl)ACR matrix for roboti.CM Center of mass.DiNormalization matrix for robotidijDistance between robotiandj.dlSpeciﬁed ACR for trial.fbWeighting function.NN u m b e r o f r o b o t s i n t h e s w a r m .NNumber of robots within ACR.kbBase behavior scaling constant.kuExternal control input scaling constant./vectorriAggregate relative position vector./vectoruuiExternal control input for roboti./vectorvbiBase behavior command velocity for roboti./vectorvciComposite command velocity for roboti.Wi(fb)Weighting matrix deﬁned by functionfb./vectorxiPose of roboti.Manuscript received 20 October 2021; revised 23 June 2022 and 18August 2022; accepted 18 September 2022. Recommended by Tech-nical Editor Jiafu Wan and Senior Editor Hong Qiao.(Correspondingauthor: Shae T. Hart.)The authors are with the Department of Mechanical Engineer-ing, Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, CA 95053 USA (e-mail:sthart@scu.edu; ckitts@scu.edu).Color versions of one or more ﬁgures in this article are available athttps://doi.org/10.1109/TMECH.2022.3211155.Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TMECH.2022.3211155I. INTRODUCTIONTHE ﬁeld of multirobot systems (MRSs) is a promisingarea of robotic research. MRSs can improve performanceover single-robot systems, potentially accomplishing challeng-ing tasks impossible for single-robot systems. An MRS canbe classiﬁed by its ﬂexibility and robustness. Flexibility is theability to adapt to environmental changes, while robustness isthe tolerance to failures in the robots in MRS [1].As u b s e to fM R Si sr o b o t i cs w a r m s .S w a r m sc o n s i s to fal a r g enumber of autonomous, generally homogeneous robots usingdecentralized control through the use of simple rules. Comparedto other MRS approaches that are more deliberate in theirformation control and task coordination, swarm technology isconsidered advantageous for ﬂexibility, scalability, robustness,and economy [2], [3]. In addition to being ﬂexible in theirresponse to their environment, swarms use lightweight, simplealgorithms, allowing them to be both highly scalable in numberand adaptable to the addition and removal of many robots [4],[5]. Swarm robots are considered interchangeable if they havethe same capacity. This idea, coupled with swarms’ abilityto scale in number, reduces the overhead for handling robotfailures making swarms more robust [1]. Robots should havestreamlined hardware, including memory, computation power,and communication range making them inexpensive to produceand more economical [6].The central theme of swarm robotics is simple, interchange-able robots with simple behaviors. However, the ﬁeld lacksconsensus about what is “simple” and whether all robots shouldbe homogeneous or fall into a few categories [7]. Additionally,some swarms emphasize reactivity while other swarms allowfor substantial computational delays for social deliberation.Reactivity enables robots to respond quickly to the environment,while social deliberation focuses more on the long-term goal.Both approaches are valid for different applications [1].Swarm robotics has four primary categories: 1) Supervi-sory swarms, focusing on leader–follower hierarchical organi-zation [2], [8], 2) consensus swarms, using consensus ﬁltering tohelp the swarm reach a consensus about the desired behavior [9],[10], 3) swarm intelligence, trying to ﬁnd optimal behaviors [4],[11], and 4) reactive particle swarms (RPSs), focusing on simpleand reactive algorithms.RPS, used in our work, consist of many homogeneous robots.The control algorithm should be scalable, preferably mathemat-ical, with lightweight, explainable, and reactive behaviors thatdo not require consensus ﬁltering or a hierarchy of robots. RPS1083-4435 © 2022 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. Authorized licensed use limited to: Santa Clara University. Downloaded on March 20,2023 at 16:46:11 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.." IEEE/ASME TRANSACTIONS ON MECHATRONICS 1Unifying Control Architecture for ReactiveParticle SwarmsShae T. Hart, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, and Christopher A. Kitts, Senior Member, IEEEAbstract—Swarm control strategies allow for decentral-ized control of many simple robots to perform collectivebehaviors based on local interactions. Despite the broadapplications of swarm robotics, there lacks a generalizedand uniﬁed set of control equations for swarms. First, thiswork presents a novel mathematical control law for decen-tralized velocity control of planar, homogeneous swarmscalled reactive particle swarms (RPS). The architecture uni-ﬁes the development of new RPS behaviors. The weightedsummation of simple base behaviors and external com-mand inputs form complex composite behaviors. Second, aseries of simulated and on-hardware case studies demon-strate the utility and ﬂexibility of the architecture. Third, thiswork establishes a library of veriﬁed RPS base behaviors.Index Terms—Control design, control system synthe-sis, decentralized control, hardware-in-the-loop simulation,multirobot systems, swarm robotics, velocity control.NOMENCLATUREACR Artiﬁcial communication range.Ci(dl)ACR matrix for roboti.CM Center of mass.DiNormalization matrix for robotidijDistance between robotiandj.dlSpeciﬁed ACR for trial.fbWeighting function.NN u m b e r o f r o b o t s i n t h e s w a r m .NNumber of robots within ACR.kbBase behavior scaling constant.kuExternal control input scaling constant./vectorriAggregate relative position vector./vectoruuiExternal control input for roboti./vectorvbiBase behavior command velocity for roboti./vectorvciComposite command velocity for roboti.Wi(fb)Weighting matrix deﬁned by functionfb./vectorxiPose of roboti.Manuscript received 20 October 2021; revised 23 June 2022 and 18August 2022; accepted 18 September 2022. Recommended by Tech-nical Editor Jiafu Wan and Senior Editor Hong Qiao.(Correspondingauthor: Shae T. Hart.)The authors are with the Department of Mechanical Engineer-ing, Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, CA 95053 USA (e-mail:sthart@scu.edu; ckitts@scu.edu).Color versions of one or more ﬁgures in this article are available athttps://doi.org/10.1109/TMECH.2022.3211155.Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TMECH.2022.3211155I. INTRODUCTIONTHE ﬁeld of multirobot systems (MRSs) is a promisingarea of robotic research. MRSs can improve performanceover single-robot systems, potentially accomplishing challeng-ing tasks impossible for single-robot systems. An MRS canbe classiﬁed by its ﬂexibility and robustness. Flexibility is theability to adapt to environmental changes, while robustness isthe tolerance to failures in the robots in MRS [1].As u b s e to fM R Si sr o b o t i cs w a r m s .S w a r m sc o n s i s to fal a r g enumber of autonomous, generally homogeneous robots usingdecentralized control through the use of simple rules. Comparedto other MRS approaches that are more deliberate in theirformation control and task coordination, swarm technology isconsidered advantageous for ﬂexibility, scalability, robustness,and economy [2], [3]. In addition to being ﬂexible in theirresponse to their environment, swarms use lightweight, simplealgorithms, allowing them to be both highly scalable in numberand adaptable to the addition and removal of many robots [4],[5]. Swarm robots are considered interchangeable if they havethe same capacity. This idea, coupled with swarms’ abilityto scale in number, reduces the overhead for handling robotfailures making swarms more robust [1]. Robots should havestreamlined hardware, including memory, computation power,and communication range making them inexpensive to produceand more economical [6].The central theme of swarm robotics is simple, interchange-able robots with simple behaviors. However, the ﬁeld lacksconsensus about what is “simple” and whether all robots shouldbe homogeneous or fall into a few categories [7]. Additionally,some swarms emphasize reactivity while other swarms allowfor substantial computational delays for social deliberation.Reactivity enables robots to respond quickly to the environment,while social deliberation focuses more on the long-term goal.Both approaches are valid for different applications [1].Swarm robotics has four primary categories: 1) Supervi-sory swarms, focusing on leader–follower hierarchical organi-zation [2], [8], 2) consensus swarms, using consensus ﬁltering tohelp the swarm reach a consensus about the desired behavior [9],[10], 3) swarm intelligence, trying to ﬁnd optimal behaviors [4],[11], and 4) reactive particle swarms (RPSs), focusing on simpleand reactive algorithms.RPS, used in our work, consist of many homogeneous robots.The control algorithm should be scalable, preferably mathemat-ical, with lightweight, explainable, and reactive behaviors thatdo not require consensus ﬁltering or a hierarchy of robots. RPS1083-4435 © 2022 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination., 20. https://doi.org/10.1109/TMECH.2022.3211155.Digital.

[48] Vector Field Path Following, et al.. "Vector Field Path Following for Miniature Derek R. Nelson, D. Blake Barber, Timothy W. McLain , Senior Member, IEEE , and." IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ROBOTICS, VOL. 23, NO. 3, JUNE 2007 519, 20. https://doi.org/10.1109/TRO.2007.898976.

[49] Vector Field, et al.. "Vector Field-based Collision Avoidance forMoving Obstacles with Time-VaryingElliptical Shape?Martin Braquet⇤Efstathios Bakolas⇤⇤Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics,The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712-1221, USA(e-mail: braquet@utexas.edu, bakolas@austin.utexas.edu).Abstract:This paper presents an algorithm for local motion planning in environmentspopulated by moving elliptical obstacles whose velocity, shape and size are fully known butmay change with time. We base the algorithm on a collision avoidance vector ﬁeld (CAVF) thataims to steer an agent to a desired ﬁnal state whose motion is described by a double integratorkinematic model. In addition to handling multiple obstacles, the method is applicable in boundedenvironments for more realistic applications (e.g., motion planning inside a building). We alsoincorporate a method to deal with agents whose control input is limited so that they safelynavigate around the obstacles. To showcase our approach, extensive simulations results arepresented in 2D and 3D scenarios.Keywords:Motion Planning, Obstacle Avoidance, Moving Obstacles.1. INTRODUCTIONCollision avoidance constitutes a fundamental problem inrobotics. For example, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs)have found many applications related to search and rescue,payload and package delivery, and surveillance, to namebut a few. To accomplish their mission, robots have to plantheir path in environments that are often populated byobstacles. Such obstacles are not precisely known or can bemobile and hence are often characterized in probabilisticways (e.g., a conﬁdence or probability ellipsoid). Dueto the motion and rotation of these obstacles, as wellas the dynamic information gathered by the robot, theprobability density of the obstacles (i.e., their shape) mayvary with time. Additionally, they are required to reactin real time to pop-up tasks and addition or removal ofsome other agents. Therefore, a well-designed algorithmfor such problems needs to be decentralized, reactive,computationally inexpensive, and handle fast collisionavoidance.Literature review:Some of the earliest and most notablealgorithms tackling obstacle avoidance problems consist ofcreating a graph by discretizing the autonomous agent’sfree conﬁguration space, considering only the geometricrequirement of ﬁnding an obstacle-free path between twopoints. Some of the most popular graph-based searchalgorithms are Dijkstra’s (Dijkstra et al. (1959)) and A*(Hart et al. (1968); Yang and Zhao (2004)), which requirea conﬁguration of the space graph using basic or moreadvanced sampling techniques such as Voronoi diagramsand projections (Huttenlocher et al. (1993); Aurenhammer(1991)). However, discrete methods rely on search-spacegranularity (i.e., searching a complex discrete space) to?This research has been supported in part by NSF under ECCS-1924790.compute the optimal solution, and therefore, are not verysuitable for real-time applications.Many relevant algorithms have been developed for motionplanning in dynamic environments usingvelocity obstacles,which aim at selecting avoidance maneuvers to avoid ob-stacles in the velocity space (Fiorini and Shiller (1998)).These algorithms are generated by selecting robot veloci-ties outside of the velocity obstacles, which represent theset of robot velocities that would result in a collision. Op-timal reciprocal collision avoidance (ORCA) is an exten-sion of the velocity obstacle algorithm to include multipleagents by resolving the common oscillation problem inmulti-agent navigation (Van den Berg et al. (2008); VanDen Berg et al. (2011); Snape et al. (2011)).More recently, new algorithms have been leveraging thequalities of machine learning to tackle problems in un-known / sparse dynamic environments. For example, analgorithm for socially aware multiagent collision avoidancewith deep reinforcement learning (SA-CADRL) has beendesigned to produce more time-e cient paths than ORCA(Chen et al. (2017); Long et al. (2018)).Algorithms based on harmonic potential ﬂow can deal withmultiple moving convex and star-shaped concave obstaclesby applying a dynamic modulation matrix, dependent onthe characteristics of the obstacles, to the original dynamicsystem (Khansari-Zadeh and Billard (2012); Huber et al.(2019)). However, these velocity-based controllers do nottake into account the inertia of the robot or more realisitckino-dynamic constraints.Local methods represent a robot as a particle in theconﬁguration space under the inﬂuence of an artiﬁcialpotential ﬁeld, whereas the direction of motion is generallychosen according to the gradient of the potential functionarXiv:2207.01747v2  [eess.SY]  23 Jul 2022." 19.

[50] Digital Object Identifier, et al.. "1070-9932/24©2024IEEEConnected and automated vehicles (CAVs) and robot swarms (RSs) hold transformative potential for enhancing safety, effi -." IEEE ROBOTICS & AUTOMATION MAGAZINE     SEPTEMBER 2025146, 20. https://doi.org/10.1109/MRA.2024.3505772.

[51] Consolidated Review, et al.. "A Consolidated Review of Path Planning and Optimization Techniques: Technical Perspectives and Future Directions." 20. https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics10182250.

[52] Cooperative Control, et al.. "Cooperative Control of Mobile Sensor Networks: Adaptive Gradient Climbing in a." 1292 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATIC CONTROL, VOL. 49, NO. 8, AUGUST 2004, 20. https://doi.org/10.1109/TAC.2004.832203payload,.

[53] Cooperative Distributed Source Seeking, et al.. "Cooperative Distributed Source Seeking by Multiple Robots: Algorithms and Experiments." 1810 IEEE/ASME TRANSACTIONS ON MECHATRONICS, VOL. 19, NO. 6, DECEMBER 2014, 20.

[54] Distributed Multi, et al.. "Distributed Multi-Robot Active-Sensing of a Francesca Pagano , Nicola De Carli , Esteban Restrepo , Member, IEEE , Antonio Marino ,." IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS, VOL. 10, NO. 10, OCTOBER 2025 10807, 20. https://doi.org/10.1109/LRA.2025.3606376,.

